in this video we'll figure out a
slightly simpler way to write the cost
function than we have been using so far
and we'll also figure out how to apply
gradient descent to fit the parameters
of logistic regression so by the end of
this video you know how to implement a
fully working version of logistic
regression here's our cost function for
logistic regression
our overall cost function is 1 over m
times sum over the training set of the
cost of making different predictions on
the different examples of labels Y I and
this is the cost for a single example
that we worked out earlier and just want
to remind you that for classification
problems in our training sets and in
fact you know even for examples now that
our training set Y is always equal to 0
or 1 right that's sort of part of the
mathematical definition of Y because Y
is either 0 1 we'll be able to come up
with a simpler way to write this cost
function and in particular rather than
writing out this cost function on two
separate lines with two separate cases
so y equals 1 and y equals 0 I'm going
to show you a way to take these two
lines and compress them into one
equation and this will make it more
convenient to write our cost function
and derive gradient descent concretely
we can write out the cost function as
follows we say that cost of H of X comma
Y I'm going to write this as minus y
times log H of X minus 1 minus y times
log 1 minus H of X and I'll show you in
a second that this expression or this
equation is a equivalent way or more
compact way of writing out this
definition of the cost function that we
had up here let's see why that's the
case
we know that there are only two possible
cases y must be 0 or Y or 1 so let's
suppose y equals 1 if Y is equal to 1
then this equation is saying that the
cost is equal to well if y is equal to 1
then this thing here is equal to 1 and 1
minus y is going to be equal to 0 right
so if y is equal to 1 then 1 minus y is
1 minus 1 which is therefore 0 so the
second term gets multiplied by 0 and
goes away and we're left with only this
first term which is y times log minus y
times log of H of X y is 1 so that's
equal to minus log H of X and this this
equation is exactly what we have up here
for if y y is equal to 1 the other case
is if Y is equal to 0 and if that's the
case then all the writing of the cost
function is saying that well Y is equal
equal to 0 then this term here would be
equal to 0 where as 1 minus y if y is
equals 0 would be we'll want because 1
minus y becomes 1 minus 0 which is just
equal to 1 and so the cost function
simplifies to just this last term here
right because on the first term over
here it gets multiplied by 0 and so
disappears so we're just left with this
last term which is minus log 1 minus H
of X and you can verify that this term
here is just exactly what we had for
when Y is equal to 0 so this shows that
this definition for the cost is just a
more compact way of taking both of these
expressions the cases y equals 1 and y
equals 0 and writing them in 1 in a more
convenient form with just one line we
can therefore write all our cost
function for logistic regression as
follows it is this 1 over m of the sum
of these cost functions and plugging in
the definition for the cost that we
worked on earlier
we end up with this and it just brought
the minus sign outside and why do we
choose this particular
well looks like there could be other
cost functions we could have chosen
although I won't have time to go into
great detail of this in this course this
cost function can be derived from
statistics using the principle of
maximum likelihood estimation which is
an idea in statistics for how to
efficiently find parameters data for
different models and it also has a nice
property that it is convex so this is
the cost function that you know
essentially everyone uses when fitting
logistic regression models if you don't
understand the terms that I just said so
that if you don't know what the
principle of maximum likelihood
estimation is don't worry about it but
it just there's just a deeper rationale
and justification behind this particular
cost function then I have time to go
into in this class given this cost
function in order to fit the parameters
what we're going to do then is try to
find the parameters theta that minimizes
J of theta so if we you know try to
minimize this this would give us some
set of parameters theta finally if we're
given a new example with some set of
features X we can then take the Thetas
that we fit to our training set and
output our prediction as this and just
to remind you the output of my
hypothesis I'm going to interpret as the
probability that Y is equal to 1 and
this is given the in product and
parameterize by theta
but just in think of this as just my
hypothesis is estimating the probability
that Y is equal to 1 so all that remains
to be done is figure out how to actually
minimize J of theta as a function of
theta so that can actually fit the
parameters to our training set the way
we're going to minimize the cost
function is using gradient descent
here's our cost function and if we want
to minimize it as a function of theta
here's our usual template for gradient
descent where we repeatedly update each
parameter by taking updating it as
itself - in learning rate alpha times
this derivative term if you know some
calculus feel free to take this term and
try to compute the derivative yourself
and see a
can simplify it to the same answer that
I get but even if you don't know
calculus don't worry about it if you
actually compute this what you get is
this equation and I'll just write it out
here and sum from I equals 1 through m
of the essentially the error times X IJ
so if you take this partial derivative
term and plug it back in here we can
then write out our gradient descent
algorithm as follows and all I've done
is I took the derivative term from the
previous slide and plugged it in there
so if you have n features you would have
you know a parameter vector theta which
would parameters theta 0 theta 1 theta 2
down to theta N and you would use this
update to simultaneously update all of
your values of theta now if you take
this update rule and compare it to what
we were doing for linear regression you
might be surprised to realize that well
this equation was exactly what we had
for linear regression in fact if you
look in the earlier videos and look at
the update rule the gradient descent
rule for linear regression it looked
exactly like what I drew here inside the
blue box so on linear regression and
logistic regression different algorithms
or not well this is resolved by
observing that for logistic regression
what has changed is that the definition
for this hypothesis has changed so
whereas for linear regression we have H
of x equals theta transpose X now the
definition of H of X has changed and is
instead now 1 over 1 plus e to the
negative theta transpose X so even
though the update rule looks
cosmetically identical because the
definition of the hypothesis has changed
this is actually not the same thing as
gradient descent for linear regression
in an earlier video when we were talking
about gradient descent for linear
regression we had talked about how to
monitor gradient descent to make sure
that it is converging I usually apply
that same method to logistic regression
to to monitor gradient descent
to make sure this conversion correctly
and hopefully you can figure out how to
apply that technique to logistic
regression yourself
when implementing logistic regression
with gradient descent we have all of
these different parameter values you
know theta zero down to theta n that we
need to update using this expression and
one thing we could do is have a for loop
so for I equals 0 to n or for I equals 1
to n plus 1 to update each of these
parameter values in turn but of course
rather than using a for loop ideally we
would also use a vectorized
implementation and so that a vectorized
implementation can update you know all
of these n plus 1 parameters all in one
fell swoop
and to check your own understanding you
might see if you can figure out how to
do the vectorized implementation of this
algorithm as well
so now you know how to implement
gradient descents for logistic
regression there was one last idea that
we had talked about earlier for linear
regression which was feature scaling so
how feature scaling can help gradient
descents converge faster for linear
regression
the idea of feature scaling also applies
to gradient descent for logistic
regression and if you have features that
are on very different scales then
applying feature scaling can also make
it gradient descent run faster for
logistic regression so that's it you now
know how to implement logistic
regression and this is a very powerful
and probably the most widely used
classification algorithm the world and
you now know how we get to work with
yourself